# Examine_and_Liberate

In order to replace the helicopters used in real life for the search and rescue operations, here a drone named plutoX quadcopter is to be used. The drone does not have an on-board camera on it. For the localization of the drone in a disaster-prone area whycon markers will help. The PID (Proportional Integral Derivative) control system mechanism will help in drone motion and positioning. To create an artificial disaster-prone area a 8x8 feets flex sheet fulfills the purpose. The flex sheet has 36 black boxes representing the houses to be liberated with a white background representing the disaster around it. Hence to find the area to be rescued image processing is to be used to find the region of interest and provide services. As people in need of immediate help ask for help using some indicators known as beacons, these beacons are made using the LED modules. In order to process the LED modules arduino nano will be used. Red LED represents liberation of the person which is treated as the highest priority, blue LED represents the medicinal help, yellow LED represents the food requirement both having same priorities. In order to visualize the whole scene of the disaster, an overhead camera will be employed at a height of 8-10 feets from the ground.
Flow of the project is such that for the beacon will light up in pseudo-random fashion. At that point the drone is positioned at the base station. This scene is viewed using the overhead camera. The camera by using image processing detects the beacons. As a result the ROS messages are published on a topic. This information is used to make the decision regarding the rescue operations to be performed.
